
[1]fall

   FALL, v.i. pret. fell; pp. fallen. [L. fallo, to fail, to deceive, Gr.;
   Heb. to fall. Fail agrees better with Heb., but these words may have
   had one primitive root, the sense of which was to move, to recede, to
   pass. See Foul.]

   1. To drop from a higher place; to descend by the power of gravity
   alone. Rain falls from the clouds; a man falls from his horse; ripe
   fruits fall from trees; an ox falls into a pit.

   I beheld Satan as lightning fall from heaven. Luke 10.

   2. To drop from an erect posture.

   I fell at his feet to worship him. Rev. 19.

   3. To disembogue; to pass at the outlet; to flow out of its channel
   into a pond, lake or sea, as a river. The Rhone falls into the
   Mediterranean sea. The Danube falls into the Euxine. The Mississippi
   falls into the gulf of Mexico.

   4. To depart from the faith, or from rectitude; to apostatize. Adam
   fell by eating the forbidden fruit.

   Labor to enter into that rest, lest any man fall after the same example
   of unbelief. Heb. 4.

   5. To die; particularly by violence.

   Ye shall chase your enemies, and they shall fall before you by the
   sword. Lev. 26.

   A thousand shall fall at thy side. Ps. 91.

   6. To come to an end suddenly; to vanish; to perish.

   The greatness of these Irish lords suddenly fell and vanished.

   7. To be degraded; to sink into disrepute or disgrace; to be plunged
   into misery; as, to fall from an elevated station, or from a prosperous
   state.

   8. To decline in power, wealth or glory; to sink into weakness; to be
   overthrown or ruined. This is the renowned Tyre; but oh, how fallen.

   Heaven and earth will witness, if Rome must fall, that we are innocent.

   9. To pass into a worse state than the former; to come; as, to fall
   into difficulties; to fall under censure of imputation; to fall into
   error or absurdity; to fall into a snare. In these and similar phrases,
   the sense of suddenness, accident or ignorance is often implied; but
   not always.

   10. To sink; to be lowered. The mercury in a thermometer rises and
   falls with the increase and diminution of heat. The water of a river
   rises and falls. The tide falls.

   11. To decrease; to be diminished in weight or value. The price of
   goods falls with plenty and rises with scarcity. Pliny tells us, the as
   fell from a pound to two ounces in the first Punic war.

   12. To sink; not to amount to the full.

   The greatness of finances and revenue doth fall under computation.

   13. To be rejected; to sink into disrepute.

   This book must stand or fall with thee.

   14. To decline from violence to calmness from intensity to remission.
   The wind falls and a calm succeeds.

   At length her fury fell.

   15. To pass into a new state of body or mind; to become; as, to fall
   asleep; to fall distracted; to fall sick; to fall into rage or passion;
   to fall in love; to fall into temptation.

   16. To sink into an air of dejection, discontent, anger, sorrow or
   shame; applied to the countenance or look.

   Cain was very wroth, and his countenance fell. Gen. 4.

   I have observed of late thy looks are fallen.

   17. To happen; to befall; to come.

   Since this fortune falls to you.

   18. To light on; to come by chance.

   The Romans fell on this model by chance.

   19. To come; to rush on; to assail.

   Fear and dread shall fall on them. Ex. 15.

   And fear fell on them all. Act. 19.

   20. To come; to arrive.

   The vernal equinox, which at the Nicene council fell on the 21st of
   March, falls now about ten days sooner.

   21. To come unexpectedly.

   It happened this evening that we fell into a pleasing walk.

   22. To begin with haste, ardor or vehemence; to rush or hurry to. They
   fell to blows.

   The mixt multitude fell to lusting. Num. 11.

   23. To pass or be transferred by chance, lot, distribution, inheritance
   or otherwise, as possession or property. The estate or the province
   fell to his brother. The kingdom fell into the hands of his rival. A
   large estate fell to his heirs.

   24. To become the property of; to belong or appertain to.

   If to her share some female errors fall.

   Look in her face; and you'll forget them all.

   25. To be dropped or uttered carelessly. Some expressions fell from
   him. An unguarded expression fell from his lips. Not a word fell from
   him on the subject.

   26. To sink; to languish; to become feeble or faint. Our hopes and
   fears rise and fall with good or ill success.

   27. To be brought forth. Take care of lambs when they first fall.

   28. To issue; to terminate.

   Sit still, my daughter, till thou knowest how the matter will fall.
   Ruth 3.

   To fall aboard of, to strike against another ship.

   To fall astern, to move or be driven backward; or to remain behind. A
   ship falls astern by the force of a current, or when outsailed by
   another.

   1. To fall away, to lose flesh; to become lean or emaciated; to pine.

   2. To renounce or desert allegiance; to revolt or rebel.

   3. To renounce or desert the faith; to apostatize; to sink into
   wickedness.

   These for awhile believe, and in time of temptation fall away. Luke 8.

   4. To perish; to be ruined; to be lost.

   How can the soul - fall away into nothing.

   5. To decline gradually; to fade; to languish, or become faint.

   One color falls away by just degrees, and another rises insensibly.

   1. To fall back, to recede; to give way.

   2. To fail of performing a promise or purpose; not to fulfill.

   To fall calm, to cease to blow; to become calm.

   1. To fall down, to prostrate one's self in worship.

   All nations shall fall down before him. Ps. 72.

   2. To sink; to come to the ground.

   Down fell the beauteous youth.

   3. To bend or bow as a suppliant. Isaiah 14.

   4. To sail or pass towards the mouth of a river, or other outlet.

   To fall foul, to attack; to make an assault.

   1. To fall from, to recede from; to depart; not to adhere; as, to fall
   from an agreement or engagement.

   2. To depart from allegiance or duty; to revolt.

   1. To fall in, to concur; to agree with. The measure falls in with
   popular opinion.

   2. To comply; to yield to.

   You will find it difficult to persuade learned men to fall in with your
   projects.

   3. To come in; to join; to enter. Fall into the ranks; fall in on the
   right.

   To fall in with, to meet, as a ship; also, to discover or come near, as
   land.

   1. To fall off, to withdraw; to separate; to be broken or detached.
   friends fall off in adversity.

   Love cools, friendship falls off, brothers divide.

   2. To perish; to die away. Words fall off by disuse.

   3. To apostatize; to forsake; to withdraw from the faith, or from
   allegiance or duty.

   Those captive tribes fell off from God to worship calves.

   4. To forsake; to abandon. His subscribers fell off.

   5. To drop. Fruits fall off when ripe.

   6. To depreciate; to depart from former excellence; to become less
   valuable or interesting. The magazine or the review falls off; it has
   fallen off.

   7. To deviate or depart from the course directed, or to which the head
   of the ship was before directed; to fall to leeward.

   1. To fall on, to begin suddenly and eagerly.

   Fall on, and try thy appetite to eat.

   2. To begin an attack; to assault; to assail.

   Fall on, fall on and hear him not.

   3. To drop on; to descend on.

   1. To fall out, to quarrel; to begin to contend.

   A soul exasperated in ills, falls out with every thing, its friend,
   itself -

   2. To happen; to befall; to chance.

   There fell out a bloody quarrel betwixt the frogs and the mice.

   1. To fall over, to revolt; to desert from one side to another.

   2. To fall beyond.

   To fall short, to be deficient. The corn falls short. We all fall short
   in duty.

   1. To fall to, to begin hastily and eagerly.

   Fall to, with eager joy, on homely food.

   2. To apply one's self to. He will never after fall to labor.

   They fell to raising money, under pretense of the relief of Ireland.

   1. To fall under, to come under, or within the limits of; to be
   subjected to. They fell under the jurisdiction of the emperor.

   2. To come under; to become the subject of. This point did not fall
   under the cognizance or deliberations of the court. These things do not
   fall under human sight or observation.

   3. To come within; to be ranged or reckoned with. These substances fall
   under a different class or order.

   1. To upon, to attack. [See to fall on.]

   2. To rush against.

   Fall primarily denotes descending motion, either in a perpendicular or
   inclined direction, and in most of its applications, implies literally
   or figuratively velocity, haste, suddenness or violence. Its use is so
   various and so much diversified by modifying words, that it is not easy
   to enumerate its senses in all its applications.

                                 FALL, v.t.

   1. To let fall; to drop. And fall thy edgeless sword. I am willing to
   fall this argument.

   [This application is obsolete.]

   2. To sink; to depress; as, to raise or fall the voice.

   3. To diminish; to lessen or lower; as, to fall the price of
   commodities. [Little used.]

   4. To bring forth; as, to fall lambs. [Little used.]

   5. To fell; to cut down; as, to fall a tree. [This use is now common in
   America, and fell and fall are probably from a common root.]

                                  FALL, n.

   1. The act of dropping or descending from a higher to a lower place by
   gravity; descent; as a fall from a horse or from the yard of a ship.

   2. The act of dropping or tumbling from an erect posture. he was
   walking on ice and had a fall.

   3. Death; destruction; overthrow.

   Our fathers had a great fall before our enemies.

   4. Ruin; destruction.

   They conspire thy fall.

   5. Downfall; degradation; loss of greatness or office; as the fall of
   Cardinal Wolsey.

   Behold thee glorious only in thy fall.

   6. Declension of greatness, power or dominion; ruin; as the fall of the
   Roman empire.

   7. Diminution; decrease of price or value; depreciation; as the fall of
   prices; the fall of rents; the fall of interest.

   8. Declination of sound; a sinking of tone; cadence; as the fall of the
   voice at the close of a sentence.

   9. Declivity; the descent of land or a hill; a slope.

   10. Descent of water; a cascade; a cataract; a rush of water down a
   steep place; usually in the plural; sometimes in the singular; as the
   falls of Niagara, or the Mohawk; the fall of the Hoosatonuc at Canaan.
   Fall is applied to a perpendicular descent, or to one that is very
   steep. When the descent is moderate, we name it rapids. Custom,
   however, sometimes deviates from this rule, and the rapids of rivers
   are called falls.

   11. The outlet or discharge of a river or current of water into the
   ocean, or into a lake or pond; as the fall of the Po into the gulf of
   Venice.

   12. Extent of descent; the distance which any thing falls; as, the
   water of a pond has a fall of five feet.

   13. The fall of the leaf; the season when leaves fall from trees;
   autumn.

   14. That which falls; a falling; as a fall of rain or snow.

   15. The act of felling or cutting down; as the fall of timber.

   16. Fall, or the fall, by way of distinction, the apostasy; the act of
   our first parents in eating the forbidden fruit; also, the apostasy of
   the rebellious angels.

   17. Formerly, a kind of vail.

   18. In seamen's language, the loose end of a tackle.

   19. In Great Britain, a term applied to several measures, linear,
   superficial and solid.
     __________________________________________________________________

References

   1. file:///home/arkad/commands/define/1828.mshaffer.com/raw/fall
