
[1]turn

   TURN, v.t. [L. turnus; torniare, to turn; tornare, to return; torneare,
   tornire, to turn, to fence round, to tilt; torniamento, tournament.]

   1. To cause to move in a circular course; as, to turn a wheel; to turn
   a spindle; to turn the body.

   2. To change or shift sides; to put the upper side downwards, or one
   side in the place of the other. It is said a hen turns her eggs often
   when sitting.

   3. To alter, as a position.

   Expert

   When to advance, or stand, or turn the sway of battle.

   4. To cause to preponderate; to change the state of a balance; as, to
   turn the scale.

   5. To bring the inside out; as,to turn a coat.

   6. To alter, as the posture of the body, or direction of the look.

   The monarch turns him to his royal guest.

   7. To form on a lathe; to make round.

   8. To form; to shape; used in the participle; as a body finely turned.

   Him limbs how turn'd.

   9. To change; to transform; as,to turn evil to good; to turn goods into
   money.

   Impatience turns an ague into a fever.

   I pray thee, turn the counsel of Ahithophel into foolishness. 2 Sam.15.

        10. To metamorphose; as, to turn a worm into a winged insect.

        11. To alter or change, as color; as, to turn green to blue.

               12. To change or alter in any manner; to vary.

              13. To translate; as, to turn Greek into English.

   --Who turns a Persian tale for half a crown.

    14. To change, as the manner of writing; as,to turn prose into verse.

   15. To change, as from one opinion or party to another; as, to turn one
     from a tory to whig; to turn Mohammedan or a pagan to a Christian.

              16. To change in regard to inclination or temper.

   Turn thee to me, and have mercy upon me. Ps.25.

        17. To change or alter from one purpose or effect to another.

   God will make these evils the occasion of greater good, by turning them
   to our advantage.

                              18. To transfer.

   Therefore he slew him, and turned the kingdom to David. 1 Chron 10.

         19. To cause to nauseate or lothe; as, to turn the stomach.

                             20. To make giddy.

   Eastern priests in giddy circles run,

   And turn their heads to imitate the sun.

    21. To infatuate; to make mad, wild or enthusiastic; as, to turn the
                                   brain.

    22. To change direction to or from any point; as, to turn the eyes to
         the heavens; to turn the eyes from a disgusting spectacle.

   23. To direct by a change to a certain purpose or object; to direct, as
       the inclination, thoughts or mind. I have turned my mind to the
                                  subject.

   My thoughts are turn'd on peace.

                   24. To revolve; to agitate in the mind.

   Turn those ideas about in your mind.

   25. To bend from a perpendicular direction; as, to turn the edge of an
                                 instrument.

    26. To move from a direct course or strait line; to cause to deviate;
        as, to turn a horse from the road, or a ship from her course.

                      27. To apply by a change of use.

   When the passage is open, land will be turned most to cattle.

                               28. To reverse.

   The Lord thy God will turn thy captivity, and have compassion upon
   thee. Deut.30.

    29. To keep passing and changing in the course of trade; as, to turn
               money or stock two or three times in the year.

              30. To adapt the mind; chiefly in the participle.

   He was perfectly well turned for trade.

     31. To make acid; to sour; as, to turn cider or wine; to turn milk.

   32. To persuade to renounce an opinion; to dissuade from a purpose, or
             cause to change sides. You cannot turn a firm man.

                          To turn aside, to avert.

    To turn away, to dismiss from service; to discard; as, to turn away a
                                  servant.

   1. To avert; as, to turn away wrath or evil.

   To turn back, to return; as, to turn back goods to the seller. [Little
                                   used.]

                    To turn down, to fold or double down.

      To turn in, to fold or double; as, to turn in the edge of cloth.

   To turn off, to dismiss contemptuously; as, to turn off a sycophant or
                                  parasite.

   1. To give over; to resign. We are not so wholly turned off from that
   reversion.

   2. To divert; to deflect; as, to turn off the thoughts from serious
   subjects.

   To be turned of, to be advanced beyond; as, to be turned of sixty six.

   To turn out, to drive out; to expel; as, to turn a family out of doors,
                            or out of the house.

   1. To put to pasture; as cattle or horses.

                To turn over, to change sides; to roll over.

   1. To transfer; as, to turn over a business to another hand.

   2. To open and examine one leaf after another; as, to turn over a
   concordance.

   3. To overset.

                        turn to, to have recourse to.

   Helvetius' tables may be turned to on all occasions.

   To turn upon, to retort; to throw back; as, to turn the arguments of an
                           opponent upon himself.

                To turn the back, to flee; to retreat. Ex.23.

          To turn the back upon, to quit with contempt; to forsake.

                 To turn the die or dice, to change fortune.

   TURN, v.i. To move round; to have a circular motion; as, a wheel turns
      on its axis; a spindle turns on a pivot; a man turns on his heel.

   1. To be directed.

   The understanding turns inwards on itself, and reflects on its own
   operations.

   2. To show regard by directing the look towards any thing.

   Turn mighty monarch, turn this way;

   Do not refuse to hear.

   3. To move the body round. He turned to me with a smile.

   4. To move; to change posture. Let your body be at rest; do not turn in
   the least.

   5. To deviate; as, to turn from the road or course.

   6. To alter; to be changed or transformed; as, wood turns to stone;
   water turns to ice; one color turns to another.

   7. To become by change; as, the fur of certain animals turns in winter.

   Cygnets from gray turn white.

   8. To change sides. A man in a fever turns often.

   9. To change opinions or parties; as, to turn Christian or Mohammedan.

                     10. To change the mind or conduct.

   Turn from thy fierce wrath. Ex.32.

    11. To change to acid; as,mild turns suddenly during a thunder storm.

   12. To be brought eventually; to result or terminate in. This trade has
   not turned to much account or advantage. The application of steam turns
                  to good account, both on land and water.

    13. To depend on for decision. The question turns on a single fact or
                                   point.

                            14. To become giddy.

   I'll look no more,

   Lest my brain turn.

                 15. To change a course of life; to repent.

   Turn ye, turn ye from your evil ways, for why will ye die? Ezek. 33.

         16. To change the course or direction; as, the tide turns.

             To turn about, to move the face to another quarter.

                          To turn away, to deviate.

   1. To depart from; to forsake.turn in, to bend inwards.

   1. To enter for lodgings or entertainment. Gen.19.

   2. To go to bed.

    To turn off, to be diverted; to deviate from a course. The road turns
                              off to the left.

                   To turn on or upon, to reply or retort.

   1. To depend on.

               To turn out, to move from its place, as a bone.

   1. To bend outwards; to project.

   2. To rise from bed; also, to come abroad.

        To turn over, to turn from side to side; to roll; to tumble.

   1. To change sides or parties.

   To turn to, to be directed; as, the needle turns to the magnetic pole.

               To turn under, to bend or be folded downwards.

                 To turn up, to bend or be doubled upwards.

        TURN, n. The act of turning; movement or motion in a circular
   direction, whether horizontally, vertically or otherwise; a revolution;
                           as the turn of a wheel.

   1. A winding; a meandering course; a bend or bending; as the turn of
   river.

   2. A walk to and from.

   I will take a turn in your garden.

   3. Change; alteration; vicissitude; as the turns and varieties of
   passions.

   Too well the turns of mortal chance I know.

   4. Successive course.

   Nobleness and bounty--which virtues had their turns in the king's
   nature.

   5. Manner of proceeding; change of direction. This affair may take a
   different turn from that which we expect.

   6. Chance; hap; opportunity.

   Every one has a fair turn to be as great as he pleases.

   7. Occasion; incidental opportunity.

   An old dog falling from his speed, was loaded at every turn with blows
   and reproaches.

   8. Time at which, by successive vicissitudes, any thing is to be had or
   done. They take each other's turn.

   His turn will come to laugh at you again.

   9. Action of kindness or malice.

   Thanks are half lost when good turns are delay'd.

   Some malicious natures place their delight in doing ill turns.

    10. Reigning inclination or course. Religion is not to be adapted to
                      the turn and fashion of the age.

                  11. A step off the ladder at the gallows.

    12. Convenience; occasion; purpose; exigence; as, this will not serve
                                  his turn.

   13. Form; cast; shape; manner; in a literal or figurative sense; as the
         turn of thought; a man of a sprightly turn in conversation.

   The turn of his thoughts and expression is unharmonious.

   Female virtues are of a domestic turn.

   The Roman poets, in their description of a beautiful man, often mention
   the turn of his neck and arms.

                14. Manner of arranging words in a sentence.

   15. Change; new position of things. Some evil happens at every turn of
                                  affairs.

     16. Change of direction; as the turn of the tide from flood to ebb.

                      17. One round of a rope or cord.

             18. In mining, a pit sunk in some part of a drift.

     19. Turn or tourn, in law. The sheriff's turn is a court of record,
    held by the sheriff twice a year in every hundred within his county.
                                 [England.]

                  By turns, one after another; alternately.

   They assist each other by turns.

   1. At intervals.

   They feel by turns the bitter change.

           To take turns, to take each other's places alternately.
     __________________________________________________________________

References

   1. file:///home/arkad/commands/define/1828.mshaffer.com/raw/turn
